README.md, before:

# Squadcast Slack Sync

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Overview

Squadcast Slack Sync is a tool that synchronizes Squadcast on-call schedules with Slack user groups. It ensures that your Slack user groups always reflect who is currently on-call in Squadcast, enabling seamless communication and incident response.

## Motivation

At Squadcast, our team relies heavily on Slack for internal communication and has developed extensive tooling around the platform over the years. While our Squadcast Slack bot excels at incident response and on-call management, it intentionally doesn't support Slack channel description updates due to engineering and design considerations. Implementing this feature would also require additional permissions when users install the bot in their workspaces.

For our internal on-call operations, our team used to manually update the description of a dedicated Slack channel for on-call related discussion after the weekly on-call handover process. We also used to manually update a Slack user group earlier, enabling team members to easily tag on-call engineers across the workspace.

Without this automation, team members would need to either visit the Squadcast web application or check the #sq-oncall channel to identify the current on-call engineer before posting messages elsewhere. So we built this small app to automate the above usecase.

Hope this will be useful for some companies. Feel free to open up issues or reach out to support if you run into any issues.

## Features

- **Automatic Synchronization**: Keep Slack user groups up-to-date with Squadcast on-call rotations
- **Channel Topic Updates**: Automatically update Slack channel topics with current on-call information
- **Schedule Tagging**: Use tags to define which Slack user groups correspond to which schedules
- **Robust Error Handling**: Detailed logging and error recovery
- **Flexible Deployment**: Run as a script, Python package, or Docker container

## Installation

````bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/SquadcastHub/sq-slack-sync.git

# Navigate to the project directory
cd sq-slack-sync

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Test the setup (optional)
python test_setup.py

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

Set the following required environment variables:

| Variable                | Description                                       | Required |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| SQUADCAST_REFRESH_TOKEN | Squadcast API refresh token                       | Yes      |
| SQUADCAST_TEAM_ID       | ID of your Squadcast team                         | Yes      |
| SLACK_BOT_TOKEN         | Slack bot user OAuth token                        | Yes      |
| SQUADCAST_TENANCY       | Squadcast tenancy domain (default: squadcast.com) | No       |

You can set these variables directly in your environment, in a `.env` file, or pass them as Docker environment variables.

### Configuration File

The application can also be configured using a `config.json` file:

```json
{
  "sync_settings": {
    "log_level": "INFO",
    "log_file": "squadcast_slack_sync.log",
    "timeout_seconds": 30
  },
  "slack_settings": {
    "retry_attempts": 3,
    "retry_delay_seconds": 2
  },
  "squadcast_settings": {
    "sync_interval_minutes": 5
  }
}
````

## Usage

### Running as a Script

```bash
# Basic usage
python main.py
```

### Running from Docker

```bash
docker-compose up
```

### Deploying as a Kubernetes CronJob

You can deploy the sync tool as a scheduled Kubernetes CronJob using the files provided in the `deployment/` folder:

1. Build and push your Docker image to a container registry:

   ```bash
   docker build -t your-registry/sq-slack-sync:latest .
   docker push your-registry/sq-slack-sync:latest
   ```

2. Update the image name in `deployment/cronjob.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   image: your-registry/sq-slack-sync:latest
   ```

3. Create base64-encoded secrets for the required environment variables:

   ```bash
   echo -n "your-slack-token" | base64
   echo -n "your-squadcast-refresh-token" | base64
   echo -n "your-squadcast-team-id" | base64
   echo -n "squadcast.com" | base64  # or your custom tenancy
   ```

4. Update `deployment/secrets.yaml` with the base64-encoded values:

   ```yaml
   data:
     SLACK_BOT_TOKEN: <base64-encoded-token>
     SQUADCAST_REFRESH_TOKEN: <base64-encoded-token>
     SQUADCAST_TEAM_ID: <base64-encoded-id>
     SQUADCAST_TENANCY: <base64-encoded-tenancy>
   ```

5. Apply the Kubernetes manifests:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f deployment/secrets.yaml
   kubectl apply -f deployment/cronjob.yaml
   ```

6. Verify the CronJob is created:
   ```bash
   kubectl get cronjobs
   ```

By default, the CronJob is configured to run every hour. You can modify the schedule in the `cronjob.yaml` file by updating the `schedule` field using standard cron syntax.

### Deploying with GitHub Actions

You can also deploy the sync tool using GitHub Actions, which provides a simpler setup without requiring Kubernetes infrastructure.

#### Manual Trigger Setup

1. **Fork this repository** to your GitHub account

2. **Add GitHub Secrets** in your repository:

   - Go to your repository → Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions
   - Add the following repository secrets:
     - `SQUADCAST_REFRESH_TOKEN`: Your Squadcast API refresh token
     - `SQUADCAST_TEAM_ID`: ID of your Squadcast team
     - `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`: Your Slack bot user OAuth token
     - `SQUADCAST_TENANCY`: Your Squadcast tenancy domain (default: squadcast.com)

3. **Test the setup** (recommended first step):

   - Go to your repository → Actions tab
   - Select "Manual Squadcast Slack Sync" workflow
   - Click "Run workflow" → "Run workflow"
   - The workflow will first run a test to verify connectivity and configuration
   - Check the logs to ensure everything is working correctly

4. **Run the sync manually**:
   - Once the test passes, you can run the actual sync
   - The workflow will update your Slack user groups with current on-call information

#### Scheduled Setup (Coming Soon)

Once the manual workflow is working, you can enable scheduled runs by modifying the workflow file to include a cron schedule.

## Setting Up Squadcast and Slack

### Squadcast Setup

1. Get your Squadcast refresh token from the profile
2. Find your team ID from the settings page
3. Add tags to each schedule you want to sync:
   - **Required**: `slack-usergroup-id` tag with the ID of the corresponding Slack user group (starts with 'S')
   - **Optional**: `slack-channel-id` tag with channel ID(s) where you want to update the topic with on-call information
     - Single channel: `C1234567890`
     - Multiple channels: `C1234567890,C0987654321` (comma-separated)
   - You can find Slack user group IDs and channel IDs in your Slack workspace settings

### Slack Setup

1. Create a Slack app in your workspace
   - **Option 1**: Create manually with the following OAuth scopes:
     - `usergroups:read`
     - `usergroups:write`
     - `users:read`
     - `users:read.email`
     - `chat:write`
     - `channels:write.topic` (required for channel topic updates)
     - `channels:manage` (required for channel topic updates)
     - `channels:read` (required for channel topic updates)
   - **Option 2**: Use the provided manifest files:
     - Go to [api.slack.com/apps](https://api.slack.com/apps)
     - Click "Create New App" → "From an app manifest"
     - Select your workspace and paste the contents of either:
       - `manifests/slack_app.json` (JSON format)
       - `manifests/slack_app.yaml` (YAML format)
2. Install the app to your workspace
3. Copy the Bot User OAuth Token for the `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN` environment variable

## Important Notes

- The `"slack-usergroup-id"` tag is essential for syncing schedules with Slack user groups. If this tag is not set for a schedule, the sync process will skip that schedule.
- Ensure the bot has been added to all user groups it needs to manage
- Email addresses must match between Squadcast and Slack for user mapping to work

### Channel Topic Updates

The application can automatically update Slack channel topics with current on-call information. This feature is enabled by adding a `slack-channel-id` tag to your Squadcast schedules.

When schedules have the `slack-channel-id` tag, the bot will update those channel topics with a formatted list of on-call engineers:

```
L1 Escalation Schedule: @john.doe @jane.smith
L2 Escalation Schedule: @mike.wilson @sarah.jones
```

**How to enable:**

1. **Add the `slack-channel-id` tag** to your Squadcast schedules:
   - Tag key: `slack-channel-id`
   - Tag value: Channel ID (e.g., `C1234567890`) or comma-separated IDs for multiple channels (e.g., `C1234567890,C0987654321`)
2. **Add the bot to each target channel**: In each channel, type `/invite @Squadcast Slack Sync` or add the bot through channel settings
3. The bot needs the `channels:write` permission (included in the manifest files)

**Key benefits:**

- Only schedules that are actively synced (have `slack-usergroup-id` tag) will appear in channel topics
- Multiple schedules can update the same channel
- Multiple channels can be updated from a single schedule
- Usernames in the topic are clickable Slack mentions

## Development

### Setting Up the Development Environment

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/SquadcastHub/sq-slack-sync.git
cd squadcast-slack-sync

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, please:

- Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/SquadcastHub/sq-slack-sync/issues)
- Reach out to [support@squadcast.com](mailto:support@squadcast.com)

Commit message:

Add scheduled workflow for Thursday afternoon syncs

README.md, after:

# Squadcast Slack Sync

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Overview

Squadcast Slack Sync is a tool that synchronizes Squadcast on-call schedules with Slack user groups. It ensures that your Slack user groups always reflect who is currently on-call in Squadcast, enabling seamless communication and incident response.

## Motivation

At Squadcast, our team relies heavily on Slack for internal communication and has developed extensive tooling around the platform over the years. While our Squadcast Slack bot excels at incident response and on-call management, it intentionally doesn't support Slack channel description updates due to engineering and design considerations. Implementing this feature would also require additional permissions when users install the bot in their workspaces.

For our internal on-call operations, our team used to manually update the description of a dedicated Slack channel for on-call related discussion after the weekly on-call handover process. We also used to manually update a Slack user group earlier, enabling team members to easily tag on-call engineers across the workspace.

Without this automation, team members would need to either visit the Squadcast web application or check the #sq-oncall channel to identify the current on-call engineer before posting messages elsewhere. So we built this small app to automate the above usecase.

Hope this will be useful for some companies. Feel free to open up issues or reach out to support if you run into any issues.

## Features

- **Automatic Synchronization**: Keep Slack user groups up-to-date with Squadcast on-call rotations
- **Channel Topic Updates**: Automatically update Slack channel topics with current on-call information
- **Schedule Tagging**: Use tags to define which Slack user groups correspond to which schedules
- **Robust Error Handling**: Detailed logging and error recovery
- **Flexible Deployment**: Run as a script, Python package, or Docker container

## Installation

````bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/SquadcastHub/sq-slack-sync.git

# Navigate to the project directory
cd sq-slack-sync

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Test the setup (optional)
python test_setup.py

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

Set the following required environment variables:

| Variable                | Description                                       | Required |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| SQUADCAST_REFRESH_TOKEN | Squadcast API refresh token                       | Yes      |
| SQUADCAST_TEAM_ID       | ID of your Squadcast team                         | Yes      |
| SLACK_BOT_TOKEN         | Slack bot user OAuth token                        | Yes      |
| SQUADCAST_TENANCY       | Squadcast tenancy domain (default: squadcast.com) | No       |

You can set these variables directly in your environment, in a `.env` file, or pass them as Docker environment variables.

### Configuration File

The application can also be configured using a `config.json` file:

```json
{
  "sync_settings": {
    "log_level": "INFO",
    "log_file": "squadcast_slack_sync.log",
    "timeout_seconds": 30
  },
  "slack_settings": {
    "retry_attempts": 3,
    "retry_delay_seconds": 2
  },
  "squadcast_settings": {
    "sync_interval_minutes": 5
  }
}
````

## Usage

### Running as a Script

```bash
# Basic usage
python main.py
```

### Running from Docker

```bash
docker-compose up
```

### Deploying as a Kubernetes CronJob

You can deploy the sync tool as a scheduled Kubernetes CronJob using the files provided in the `deployment/` folder:

1. Build and push your Docker image to a container registry:

   ```bash
   docker build -t your-registry/sq-slack-sync:latest .
   docker push your-registry/sq-slack-sync:latest
   ```

2. Update the image name in `deployment/cronjob.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   image: your-registry/sq-slack-sync:latest
   ```

3. Create base64-encoded secrets for the required environment variables:

   ```bash
   echo -n "your-slack-token" | base64
   echo -n "your-squadcast-refresh-token" | base64
   echo -n "your-squadcast-team-id" | base64
   echo -n "squadcast.com" | base64  # or your custom tenancy
   ```

4. Update `deployment/secrets.yaml` with the base64-encoded values:

   ```yaml
   data:
     SLACK_BOT_TOKEN: <base64-encoded-token>
     SQUADCAST_REFRESH_TOKEN: <base64-encoded-token>
     SQUADCAST_TEAM_ID: <base64-encoded-id>
     SQUADCAST_TENANCY: <base64-encoded-tenancy>
   ```

5. Apply the Kubernetes manifests:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f deployment/secrets.yaml
   kubectl apply -f deployment/cronjob.yaml
   ```

6. Verify the CronJob is created:
   ```bash
   kubectl get cronjobs
   ```

By default, the CronJob is configured to run every hour. You can modify the schedule in the `cronjob.yaml` file by updating the `schedule` field using standard cron syntax.

### Deploying with GitHub Actions

You can also deploy the sync tool using GitHub Actions, which provides a simpler setup without requiring Kubernetes infrastructure.

#### Manual Trigger Setup

1. **Fork this repository** to your GitHub account

2. **Add GitHub Secrets** in your repository:

   - Go to your repository → Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions
   - Add the following repository secrets:
     - `SQUADCAST_REFRESH_TOKEN`: Your Squadcast API refresh token
     - `SQUADCAST_TEAM_ID`: ID of your Squadcast team
     - `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`: Your Slack bot user OAuth token
     - `SQUADCAST_TENANCY`: Your Squadcast tenancy domain (default: squadcast.com)

3. **Test the setup** (recommended first step):

   - Go to your repository → Actions tab
   - Select "Manual Squadcast Slack Sync" workflow
   - Click "Run workflow" → "Run workflow"
   - The workflow will first run a test to verify connectivity and configuration
   - Check the logs to ensure everything is working correctly

4. **Run the sync manually**:
   - Once the test passes, you can run the actual sync
   - The workflow will update your Slack user groups with current on-call information

#### Scheduled Setup

The repository includes a scheduled workflow that runs every 15 minutes from noon to 6pm EST on Thursdays. This targeted schedule is designed to catch typical Thursday afternoon schedule changes.

**Schedule Details:**
- **When**: Every Thursday
- **Time**: 12:00 PM - 6:00 PM EST (5:00 PM - 11:00 PM UTC)
- **Frequency**: Every 15 minutes
- **Total runs per Thursday**: 24 sync operations

**To enable scheduled runs:**
1. The scheduled workflow is already configured in `.github/workflows/scheduled-sync.yml`
2. GitHub Actions will automatically run the workflow according to the schedule
3. You can monitor scheduled runs in the Actions tab
4. Failed runs will upload logs as artifacts for debugging

**Customizing the schedule:**
You can modify the cron expression in `.github/workflows/scheduled-sync.yml` to match your specific needs:
- Change the time range by modifying the hour range `17-23`
- Change the frequency by modifying the minute values `0,15,30,45`
- Change the day by modifying the day-of-week value `4` (Thursday)

## Setting Up Squadcast and Slack

### Squadcast Setup

1. Get your Squadcast refresh token from the profile
2. Find your team ID from the settings page
3. Add tags to each schedule you want to sync:
   - **Required**: `slack-usergroup-id` tag with the ID of the corresponding Slack user group (starts with 'S')
   - **Optional**: `slack-channel-id` tag with channel ID(s) where you want to update the topic with on-call information
     - Single channel: `C1234567890`
     - Multiple channels: `C1234567890,C0987654321` (comma-separated)
   - You can find Slack user group IDs and channel IDs in your Slack workspace settings

### Slack Setup

1. Create a Slack app in your workspace
   - **Option 1**: Create manually with the following OAuth scopes:
     - `usergroups:read`
     - `usergroups:write`
     - `users:read`
     - `users:read.email`
     - `chat:write`
     - `channels:write.topic` (required for channel topic updates)
     - `channels:manage` (required for channel topic updates)
     - `channels:read` (required for channel topic updates)
   - **Option 2**: Use the provided manifest files:
     - Go to [api.slack.com/apps](https://api.slack.com/apps)
     - Click "Create New App" → "From an app manifest"
     - Select your workspace and paste the contents of either:
       - `manifests/slack_app.json` (JSON format)
       - `manifests/slack_app.yaml` (YAML format)
2. Install the app to your workspace
3. Copy the Bot User OAuth Token for the `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN` environment variable

## Important Notes

- The `"slack-usergroup-id"` tag is essential for syncing schedules with Slack user groups. If this tag is not set for a schedule, the sync process will skip that schedule.
- Ensure the bot has been added to all user groups it needs to manage
- Email addresses must match between Squadcast and Slack for user mapping to work

### Channel Topic Updates

The application can automatically update Slack channel topics with current on-call information. This feature is enabled by adding a `slack-channel-id` tag to your Squadcast schedules.

When schedules have the `slack-channel-id` tag, the bot will update those channel topics with a formatted list of on-call engineers:

```
L1 Escalation Schedule: @john.doe @jane.smith
L2 Escalation Schedule: @mike.wilson @sarah.jones
```

**How to enable:**

1. **Add the `slack-channel-id` tag** to your Squadcast schedules:
   - Tag key: `slack-channel-id`
   - Tag value: Channel ID (e.g., `C1234567890`) or comma-separated IDs for multiple channels (e.g., `C1234567890,C0987654321`)
2. **Add the bot to each target channel**: In each channel, type `/invite @Squadcast Slack Sync` or add the bot through channel settings
3. The bot needs the `channels:write` permission (included in the manifest files)

**Key benefits:**

- Only schedules that are actively synced (have `slack-usergroup-id` tag) will appear in channel topics
- Multiple schedules can update the same channel
- Multiple channels can be updated from a single schedule
- Usernames in the topic are clickable Slack mentions

## Development

### Setting Up the Development Environment

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/SquadcastHub/sq-slack-sync.git
cd squadcast-slack-sync

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, please:

- Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/SquadcastHub/sq-slack-sync/issues)
- Reach out to [support@squadcast.com](mailto:support@squadcast.com)
